Hello again.
Marvellous God it is.
Let's continue play customization in this video going to create a gooey that's going to switch between
characters and cycle through materials.
So let's just remind ourselves what a play a customization screen will look like in a food fight.
Well we want to cycle through the textures and that word is important.
If I've got 10 textures and I want texture 10 and I go for texture I need to go to texture one we can
grab all these textures with firetrap but we already know how to do that.
That's all done.
In fact I've got a folder of play attractions and if you wanted to you could make more play textures
by opening a texture follow with GIMP or Photoshop or any graphics manipulation package and go crazy
players in a select player characters from a list at the moment we have to they get pick.
So they're not going have to cycle through those.
This is Give me a drop down list that can pick.
OK.
Let's get to it.
I won't get into my scenes into customisation and open character customization and I know I've been
playing a lot with this camera.
I think I want this podium to be more important than it is.
I kind of feel like the goalie should be down here.
So let's just move a little bit slowly transform.
And now you know what I do this manually.
I see this manually.
Let's move you to here.
How's that look.
Dramatic.
A little lower.
Now I see this is it.
This is the position I'm picking it.
I'm not moving anymore.
If you're curious what that is.
I'm at zero point six five on the Y and two point seven on the set.
Okay.
So the first thing I need to do here is make a gooey and I'm gonna make probably a brand new season
let's make a brand new song.
And I make it a canvas lair as my root.
And I'm going to call this customization UI.
I want everything right here something to start with a box container and let's put you for the moment.
Anki you full screen but I'm in a position you at centre bottom and let's move you up a bit.
So margin from the bottom is going to be 100 pixels negative 1 pixels.
So I struggle to get 100 pixels and just size you like that.
Great.
Let's call you controls.
And I feel like it should have a background.
So let's give it a collar.
The collar rectangle I make this fall right.
And I think a nice black gooey will look good.
I could tweak that later.
Let's look and find for out again.
I want to be able to pick between the different characters on who do is going to create a new control.
I think would do an option button and option button as you can see is a light mosle dropdown.
Why don't we start with free hours a good name and this isn't exactly part of the theme business versus
load that theme in so into my themes and load it and I've put it in scenes.
There it is.
And already she's got herself up his text.
Okay.
Let's make this reebok's container put everything in the centre.
And I was going to need size business out about that for now I just reposition that so bottom centre.
Centre bottom there it is.
And I call this character select.
And right now it has no options.
Let's go to some items.
Item zero text phraya and an I.D. of 0.
And let's add item 1 which is going to have an I.D. of one and it's going be called Frey kind of feeney's
Nor Scott right now.
It might be a little hard to see these colours but I'm okay with it.
Now we can change those later.
All right underneath there's a wooden box container with a button label and a button start with a text
a button.
I like texture buttons.
They're pretty OK.
And for this I need to go into gooey graphics and let's pick this blue slider button it's my texture.
Let's called this left button and let's put in a label.
That's right.
Customize your look.
And I should keep my capitalization good.
Okay.
And one more buttons will give me another texture button.
And that will be the right one.
The textures come here.
They're great.
And you see that this item this has already expanded so we're now getting to the point where this isn't
good size.
What I would like to do is add a bit more detail here so I need a hover ledwich which going to be this
green one.
Actually no.
The hoffer's Remain bulloo.
Let's put the Prest as the green light that looks better and the same with the left.
Why you're a texture act.
I didn't mean texture.
I meant texture but then let's try that again.
One more time.
Okay so left is on normal and on hover let's just see how that looks.
Yes I want to save this scene's customization customization you I.
Great.
I've got that on hover by mistake.
But these can be picked.
That's looking decent again.
So let's just make sure that that's on press not hover.
OK.
So with a clear hover.
And put that on Prest much more like it.
Okay let's fix this thing.
I'm not really feeling that thing with better control saying go to my thien and I'm going to go in to
class item see option button where you option but only option button you should not look like clutz
buttons so let's look at styles.
I'm going to do a new new style box flat that we can click on that a..
Give this a better look.
A background colour.
I'm going to give this a nice.
Black again.
Let's just pick a nice grey.
And you know what I should do.
Oh I just had a really good idea of this life.
Okay.
We're at level let's find a pop up menu.
So where did you go pop up a pop up to do paus menu.
They are open that scene that show the pop up.
And that's because this colour rectangle and I click on the colour and let's add this colour to our
favourites put it there.
Now I want to go into this scene and open a Starbucks flat.
I go to the colour I should build it just click this.
And that's looking much better.
Great.
OK.
So I've got my normal press.
I do the exact same thing that's going to copy and paste it so let's copy paste it and paste it on hover
as well.
I want this to look just like that.
Let's run this seems Catholics.
Yes.
Looking a little bit better isn't it Now.
Right now it is too far down it's not centred but we will fix that last.
We've got everything else going.
I have also noticed that I need to move the texel on some and align that to the centre and that will
be fine.
Awesome.
Finally I need some sort of begin button.
I guess I've got these box containers.
Now I need another box container.
Each box container a number do.
And it's going to have a label and then a standard button.
And as soon as they begin and let's align you to the right and you are going to have a button and it
should just be a standard buttonless give you a standard size m. size 30 30.
Great and it's put you to the centre a bad box and here to an alignment Centre.
Great.
All right.
Grab all of these to realign them so full rectangle for my ankles and then Centre bottom and then I'm
just going to move you up a little bit so you can hold shift to make sure that I'm only moving my axes
and eyeballs.
All right.
Let's save that back into carrot customization.
Analysis instance that scene ends so good at scenes customization customization you are.
And now want to run this scene.
Awesome.
Now you didn't notice the play I just went through the floor.
I don't want the player to go through the floor.
And the reason they've gone through the floor is I've actually brought the player in not the omission
as the lead both these players and let's instance in back to characters back to players into armatures
March Mike arledge armchair male that needs to go to this scene here.
So capitalization I'm a male.
And again I need to scale this down like I did before.
So scale you zero point to five.
I have to remember this because we do this quite recently.
Hope.
And now this has no physics attached so it's not going to move her out.
And let's move you up by a way too much.
Zero point zero point one better.
All right so you can be armature.
Minimize that folder and the most that folder.
Now let's.
Instance in the other one as well.
And that could be giant a scale that down to zero point zero for sorry zero point zero zero four.
Looking much better.
Okay.
This is really immature.
And let's put the correct capitalization in both of the press caps lock.
That's what it's going wrong.
I'm while I'm at it.
What's going on here is if I do the editable children I put the animation tree play in the armature
here.
But in the play a scene for the show and so on open a play a scene so that's scenes characters.
Players play the F and let's delete this note.
And go into the armature an instance of it here.
There it is.
And I'm just going to remember to fix those few animations that were different so run becomes running
working becomes pick up Punch should stay as punch an Idol should stay as idle and that should be good
to go.
So now I save all of these say that on and head on back to here let's hide one of these hide theme now.
I'd mail.
Great.
Let's see how this scene looks.
Right now these buttons don't do anything of the are doing next but the fat is starting to look pretty
shiny.
Do you need to move up slowly Let's move up.
Translation 0.01.
No way too little.
Zero Point one.
Back in to my preview camera.
Very nice.
Awesome cool.
Now let's look this up.
So what I need to do is I'm going to have to make some signals.
Someone who edits all children for customization you I don't need an adorable children for this.
It's just tiniest bit and I'm going to connect these signals.
But to do that I need a script.
So let's make a script and I put this my script folder character customization loggi League name.
Fantastic analysis connecting links.
Let's start with character isolette.
I forgot to note and look at my signals.
You'll see that we pass through the integer idae and I put those in when I was making this scene.
Right so if I look at my items there's an idea zero an I.D. Once a week to pass those through.
And we can use that to select which model can be looking at which is or ideal.
So connect that and it's about customization and it's connected.
Great.
We got well we've got left and right haven't renamed right ashbery do that now.
Boop they are right button.
And get back in.
You should have a better name.
They have a better name.
Yes you do.
Awesome.
Now if I just connect this as it is I will have one function called left button or left button pressed
and one called right button pressed and they're going to do almost the exact same thing.
So instead I mean that connect them to a single function.
So let's get oppressed.
Well to connect it to casco character customization.
And I was going to call this change material but to add one more thing I'm going to add a string as
an argument.
So which button are we using using the left button are to put through the string or left.
And I'm going to copy change material and there's my change material and it comes through with what
should be an argument a part.
There's I'm going to through it it is passing through the argument.
OK.
So that function is going to need an extra argument.
I will do the same thing with right.
So connect that I connected to character customization.
It's going to pass the same method with a new string and something would be called right.
So we have a single material.
Just double check them.
If I click on right button and mouse over the actual cygnets connected to you see it's changed material
and it binds right and this one should be changed material and it binds or left.
Awesome.
So now were going to call that method.
Am I going to pass through a string that says left or right as an argument.
So in my script I need to put in the argument then call it direction.
Finally I need to connect this button here which I'm going to rename.
So back to my customer is ition you screen.
I'm going to rename this button.
Start one save that and connect the stop button on Prest.
Connecting to character customization on stop unpressed boon.
Well that was probably my simpliste.
So let's start with this.
I'm going to get a tree change scene.
You should not be zero.
There we go.
And what about changing too.
I sure don't need the strings here because I'm going to go since levels for now.
Level 1 is great.
Drag that in there and that will work fine.
How do I know.
Let's run the scene.
Look at that.
So now I'm going to add a handful of new materials.
First thing I need to do is actually grab these player materials.
Let's go into the right scene something back into my customization scene and the play materials you'll
see.
I've got six materials here and you can make more or if we open any of these up in the inspectors I'm
going to double click on it.
You see this is texture right here.
Catalysis web page he's actually got like a template we can use but all we need to do is change these
colours in gameplay photo shop or whatever criter program you like and you can import it and just make
a brand new tax year.
But here we have six materials and the nice thing is they're going to work on all them so they have
different skin tones different shoe colours and all the rest.
But we need to actually grab this so that we can you very well.
And of course this materials list I want to set this up as a dictionary.
We need a ready function so function already.
And what I'm doing I'm setting materials this materials list.
There it is the equals
file grabber and I need the get files function within that gets files and I need to bring in everything
in this false sense go back up one copy path paste done.
So materials list is now set.
I also need a track a few other things that need a variable for kind material and I need to know which
player that's only the player variable rather called Current play.
OK.
We need to decide which one we start with and it doesn't really matter.
I've got them male unselected So that's going be my current player.
So let's go in to scripta and current player on ready is going to be mailed current player.
He calls mail.
Now I could make this an Injun But for now let's just make this nice and simple.
And I've got two characters so it's not getting out of hand.
If I had 15 characters 24 characters 120 and none would be the way to go.
Maybe even something a little more control.
Okay.
I've unhidden the the armature off so you can see both at the same time because I've got to hide it
in script.
So back in the script and I'm not to hide immature so immature F dot.
Hi I'm not in the MASH.
I'm hiding the entire armature.
And now on to play the scene.
She is hidden right now right now this isn't doing anything but that's okay.
Now I've got freyer as my default selection but I'm showing phrase you know what I'm actually going
to change your mind.
Can't play is going to be female.
Men get to hide the male character and just to check I haven't broken anything.
Awesome let's make had to select work so we've got to pass through an idea.
Let's make this really simple.
Let's hide both of them.
I'm going to go immature F dot height.
Going to duplicate that and do harm a check.
Hide and that is when I've called them both excellent.
At this point we could use an IF condition.
Let's do the slightly differently let's use match.
Match works.
Kind of like a forced statement if statement rather than what it's doing is it's matching a specific
value and then changes behaviour.
So match I.D. What I'm saying is take this value and match it.
If this value is zero and I need to go down indentation line then current player equals female and I
need to show that that much.
So much F dot Sure.
Okay if it's one current player.
Equals mail.
And once again John M dot.
Sure I'll see how that looks.
Are not too shabby right.
Okay next doubleness change the material so I've seen have minimized that.
There it is.
If you're Cure's what happened there.
You can press the still down arrow and hide bits of code not using right now.
So got match working.
Oh by the way if you are used to another programming language like C++ or C sharp you might be saying
well why haven't you put in a break here.
You need to put something to tell it that you're no longer using this match.
You don't script great it will just stop when it runs out of options so if they match ideas too it just
wont work do anything.
I don't need to put Nelson has got big screen.
OK.
Let's start making a new variable and I'm going to call this materials count and that is going to be
the material this size.
However materialist is going to be using a key that starts at zero right.
And size is going to count whatever is a key 0 as 1.
So if there's only one entry you'll have kieser over the size you want some of subtract by one just
so that these so we don't have an off by one errors anyway.
Nothing like a new method and I'm gonna call this selective material.
In this I'm on a path for direction and the materials count.
Couple of spaces give us some room great function to select materials passing through Direction materials
count.
All right sort of want to see our say if direction is equal to right which is a string and current material
plus equals one else current material minus equal one.
Now the eagle eye amongst you will notice that there is a potential problem here.
And you're right.
And that's why we've set this up like this.
But that's coming up later.
So not why.
And if you haven't spotted the error Don't panic.
It'll all become clear again let's go back up to change materials so when I do select material and that's
just going to change this count that's fine we can do that.
And now let's apply it and do that I'm just going to make some short cuts so far.
Male equals immature EMP.
And specifically I don't just want the armature.
I want the mesh because it's what I'm applying the material alisyn say for female.
So that equals.
Female mesh.
And to make this work I'm going to use something called a set surface materials.
I guess let's do male set surface material.
Where does that come from.
That's part of mescher So a look at it some scroll down to set surface material and need an integer
for which surface was setting and which material.
OK.
So what's material called I can close this mission since for now.
Well let's take a look.
If I do children and look at the mash there is a single material called Zerah.
By the way be careful because I just found this out just now for evitable children.
On the other omniture this one doesn't have a material.
It doesn't matter what the mash has this wanted it once and it's got plight one.
I'm gonna go to the image a female scene right now.
A mesh and a little loader material.
And it's got the material one so they both look the same.
Save that now there's a little confusing because we have a material here and mature on a measurement.
Open the mesh.
I just clicked on the actual much self and remove the material from here in a clear that.
So there's just some basic troubleshooting.
So look out for make sure that all your assets are consistent or you'll get very different results.
Say that in my script I know it's going be zero and what material do I want you to load it in as an
object because I've only got strings and need to convert into objects and monogrammed materials list
and I want a specific key from that.
What Kido I want current material.
So now I'm excrements big duplicate that and change them.
Mail the second one to female.
All right let's see how that works out so I can do switch materials not working.
Awesome.
Let's check.
Mail you are working.
Why.
Why aren't you working.
You should absolutely be working.
Oh no.
Oh my goodness.
Okay.
Variable female omniture move their ago.
One more time with feeling.
Care.
Much more like it.
And I can go over here.
Great.
But we have a bug.
If I go for a few more materials we're going to crash.
And why are we crashing.
Because there's no indexed six in this dictionary.
So here's my challenge for you.
I'd like you to cycle the texture's have the customization script cycle through that lissom materials.
In other words if we're at the end of the list and I keep pressing right bring me to the beginning if
I'm at the beginning in a press left brain is the end.
So pause the video.
See which you can figure out and when you're ready come on back and I show you my solution.
And welcome back.
OK so we've already laid the groundwork here.
Right.
And as you can see here I'm passing through the materials count to select material so it's going to
be in here.
And what I really want to do is make a another layer if conditions so if pressing right now only to
check if the current material.
Is the same as the materials count then current material.
Equals zero.
In other words if we're at the end of the list OK.
So we have six materials where the six material press right.
Then set it to zero and it doesn't matter how many materials we have because we can just count the size
that lets the more things when that folder the bigger the list will become this will scale find a gate.
When you say very similar here.
So if current no this is what were pressing left.
Come a Terian is zero then the current material is going to be set to single equals this time materials
count else and I'll be very careful here.
There should be an else let's put else in and do that.
Awesome.
Now I've done this correctly.
Do do do cycle back cycle forward.
And we keep cycling.
And I'll begin with it.
It'll work either with either of them begin as the buttner was looking at outstanding and that brings
us to the end of the video in this video.
We've looked at Applied Materials to measures at run time which is very helpful and cycling to the end
or beginning of a dictionary or a real work just as well for a race.
So really good stuff we get.
We've got a really nice system going on here and running this will scale up.
It doesn't matter how complex your model is or how many different things are customizing.
This will still work.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.